+++
# Don't remove name!
title = "faq"

header = "Definitions"
image = "trianglesplit-03.png"
author = ""
subtitle = ""
weight = 1

+++


## Grid.TF

The Grid.TF is the global network of IT infrastructure that is indexed by the ThreeFold Directory.  The Grid.TF is comprised of all the capacity and services generated by Operators and Hosters.  The Grid.TF is our “new, neutral, Edge Internet."

## Hosters

Hosters include anyone hosting a Zero Node and accepting ThreeFold tokens as payment for the capacity they produce.  The primary responsibility of Hosters is to connect their Zero Nodes to the internet and make sure power is ok.  Hosters are  typically private individuals, buying pre-fabricated Zero Nodes or downloading the Zero-OS onto existing hardware they already own

## Operators

Operators deploy IT infrastructure and help build out the Grid.TF.  The capacity produced by Operators is made available for sale via the TF Directory

## ThreeFold App

The App is a mobile application which integrates e-wallet.  The App allows TF Users to securely keep Tokens in their e-Wallet, send and receive Tokens, execute smart contracts, search the TF Directory for capacity and other administrative functions

## ThreeFold Blockchain

The TF Blockchain is technically not 1 blockchain but its the ability to use multiple.

We support Ethereum as well as Rivine.io.

## Rivine.IO

This blockchain is different from some of the other blockchains in that it is run on a separate dedicated pool of Zero Nodes and has numerous additional features including support for storage, secure execution environments, metadata servers and identity management.

This blockchain uses proof of stake mechanism which provides more scalability.

## ThreeFold Cockpit

The TF Cockpit is software which can be used by any TF User or TF Service Provider to expose the TF Services by means of a defined rest-API

## ThreeFold Contract

The TF Contract is a smart contract defining capacity transactions.  The TF Contract specifies the key information such as the capacity or service, duration, price per unit, location, etc.  the Contracts are also linked to the APIs which host the service

## ThreeFold Directory

The Directory is a global directory service running on top of our blockchain that publishes all available capacity, services and pricing on the Grid.TF.  The Directory is integrated with ItsYou.Online for authentication.

## ThreeFold Exchange

The TF Exchange provides a spot rate exchange service for Token Holders.  The Exchange is linked to numerous cryptocurrency exchanges and fiat payments providers.  The Exchange is fully integrated with the TF App and e-Wallet and can verify counterparties via itsyou.online (with advanced non-anonymous KYC and AML)

## ThreeFold Foundation

The Foundation  was formed as a transparent tokenized non-profit organization.  The Foundation invests in Operators and other parts of the ThreeFold ecosystem.  The Foundation generates revenues and cash flows through its subsidiaries and receives royalties from apps using the Foundation’s open-source technology

## ThreeFold Member

Members are any purchaser of at least 1 TF Token.  As part of the onboarding process, each Member opens an itsyou.online account to verify and manage identity, completes KYC and AML checks and integrates with our e-Wallet solution

## ThreeFold Promoter

The TF Promoter is a marketing organization focused on promoting the various Foundation initiatives.  For Token Holders, the Promoter plays a role similar to investor relations - publishing relevant news and information for Token Holders.  On the capacity side, the TF Promoter runs the website managing the Grid.TF via APIs and simple User Interfaces.  The Promoter also prepares cookbooks and provides training for Operators and also educates Grid.TF on the benefits of TF Tokens as a payment mechanism.  For TF Hosters, the Promoter provides online training and help desk and handles initial procurement

## ThreeFold Service API

TF Services API is a rest-based API specified in RAML (a definition language).  When registering a service to the TF Directory the specific TF Service API must be registered with it

## ThreeFold Service Provider

Service Providers are anyone delivering an app or service on the Grid.TF  All apps and services must be registered in the TF Directory and follow registered TF Service APIs

## ThreeFold Tech

ThreeFold Tech is a holding company for all of the Foundation’s open-source technology


##  ThreeFold Token = TFT

The TF Token is our backed, green and neutral Token.  The Token is the designated payment mechanism for capacity sold on our Grid.TF

## ThreeFold User

Users are anyone using services as delivered by a TF Service Provider (they use TF Services APIs)

## ThreeFold Token Holders


TF Token Holders fall into three broad categories:
- Investors.  Investors and savers who hold TF Tokens as a safe digital currency backed by real assets
- Users.  Producers and purchasers of Internet capacity who use TF Tokens as the designated payment mechanism for Internet capacity sold on the TF Grid and
- Believers.  Believers who endorse the Foundation’s core values and ambitions

## Zero Node

A Zero Node is a node running the Foundation’s Zero-OS open-source software.  Zero nodes are designed to be plug and play and “self driving” so they can be hosted by any Token Holder.  The blockchain is