+++
# Don't remove name!
title = "faq"

header = "Threefold Definitions FAQ"
image = "../img/definitions.jpg"
author = ""
subtitle = ""
weight = 1

+++


## Our Grid

Our Grid is the global network of IT infrastructure that is indexed by the ThreeFold Directory.  Our Grid is comprised of all the capacity and services generated by Operators and Hosters.  Our Grid is our “new, neutral, Edge Internet."

<h2>Hosters</h2>
<!-- please right this header title inside h2 tags because it overwrite with some ids -->


Hosters include anyone hosting a Zero-Node and accepting ThreeFold tokens as payment for the capacity they produce.  The primary responsibility of Hosters is to connect their Zero-Nodes to the internet and make sure power is ok.  Hosters can buy pre-fabricated Zero-Nodes or download the Zero-OS onto existing hardware they already own

<h2>Operators</h2>
<!-- please right this header title inside h2 tags because it overwrite with some ids -->
Operators deploy IT infrastructure and help build out our Grid.  The capacity produced by Operators is made available for sale for Tokens via our Directory

## ThreeFold App

The App is a mobile application which integrates an e-wallet.  The App will allow TF Users to securely keep Tokens in their e-Wallet, send and receive Tokens, enter smart contracts, search our Directory for capacity and other administrative functions

## ThreeFold Blockchain

At PTO, we plan to issue our tokens in an ERC-20 compliant way. Over time we intend to migrate our Tokens to our own blockchain, called Rivine.io.

## Rivine.IO

Our Rivine.io. blockchain is different from some of the other blockchains in that it is run on a separate dedicated pool of Zero-Nodes and has numerous additional features including support for storage, secure execution environments, metadata servers and identity management.  The Foundation (through its 100% affiliated limited liability company) is responsible for running the blockchain

## ThreeFold Cockpit

The TF Cockpit is software which can be used by any TF User or TF Service Provider to expose the TF Services by means of a defined rest-API

## ThreeFold Contract

The TF Contract is a smart contract defining capacity transactions.  The TF Contract specifies the key information such as the capacity or service, duration, price per unit, location, etc.  The Contracts are also linked to the APIs which host the service

## ThreeFold Directory

The Directory is a global directory service running on top of our blockchain that publishes all available capacity, services and pricing on our Grid.  The Directory is integrated with our identity management platform, ItsYou.Online, for authentication.

## ThreeFold Exchange

The TF Exchange provides a spot rate exchange service for Token Holders.  The Exchange is fully integrated with the TF App, e-Wallet and Directory and can verify counterparties via itsyou.online

## ThreeFold Foundation

The Foundation’s long term objective is to migrate our Token firmly into the mainstream as a currency used to purchase IT and other services. The envisaged way to achieve this is by creating a virtuous cycle: Token sales help grow a global grid of IT capacity, and the global grid supports the use of the Token.
 

## ThreeFold Promoter

The TF Promoter is a marketing organization focused on promoting the various Foundation initiatives.  For Token Holders, the Promoter plays a role similar to investor relations - publishing relevant news and information for Token Holders.  On the capacity side, the TF Promoter runs the website managing our Grid via APIs and simple User Interfaces.  The Promoter also prepares cookbooks and provides training for Operators and also educates Token Holders on the benefits of TF Tokens as a preferred currency.  For TF Hosters, the Promoter provides online training and help desk and handles initial procurement

## ThreeFold Service API

TF Services API is a rest-based API specified in RAML (a definition language).  When registering a service to our Directory the specific TF Service API must be registered with it

## ThreeFold Service Provider

Service Providers are anyone delivering an app or service on our Grid.  All apps and services must be registered in our Directory and follow registered TF Service APIs

##  ThreeFold Token

The ThreeFold Token is our utility green and neutral Token.  The Token is the designated currency for capacity sold on our Grid

## ThreeFold User

Users are anyone using services as delivered by a TF Service Provider (they use TF Services APIs)

## ThreeFold Token Holders



TF Token Holders fall into three broad categories:
- Investors.  Investors and savers who hold TF Tokens as a safe digital currency
- Users.  Producers and purchasers of Internet capacity who use TF Tokens as the designated currency for Internet capacity sold on our Grid
- Believers.  Believers who endorse the Foundation’s core values and ambitions

## Zero-Node

A Zero-Node is a node running the Foundation’s Zero-OS open-source software.  Zero-Nodes are designed to be plug and play and “self driving” so they can be hosted by any Token Holder.  Our Rivine.io blockchain is run on a specific type of Zero-Node.
