+++
# Don't remove title!
title = "information"
header = "Rivine: Our Blockchain "
image = "../img/autonomous.jpg"
author = "Kristof De Spiegeleer"
subtitle = ""
weight = 3
+++

### General blockchain information

A blockchain, as first introduced in the Bitcoin protocol, is a technological concept that allows reaching consensus about the state of a digital distributed ledger in a system where the stakeholders don't know and don't necessarily trust each other. Think of it as a way to timestamp and validate transactions in a decentralized peer2peer network without externally trusted parties.
An excellent non-technical introduction can be found here: https://hackernoon.com/wtf-is-the-blockchain-1da89ba19348

While the application of the Bitcoin blockchain is mainly limited to transferring Bitcoins (and registering small amounts of data), blockchain technology can be leveraged to provide much more exciting functionality. For example, smart contracts that execute on the chain do not need external parties (or middle men) to decide what is true and what is not. Indeed, these smart contracts were perhaps the biggest draw to the Ethereum blockchain. Legal agreements can be converted to such a digital contract in a way that they are verifiable by participants and executed according to the digital rules. An often used analogy for such a smart contract is a vending machine, being programmed to hand out the soda of your choice if you insert enough money.

Unfortunately, current iterations of blockchain technology (even Ethereum) are severely restricted in the number of transactions oroperations per second that can be processed in such a global chain, though work is ongoing to address this issue (sharding and Raiden upgrades to the Ethereal network, for example. See http://www.coindesk.com/information/will-ethereum-scale/ and https://themerkle.com/what-is-the-raiden-network/ for more information).

From here on, we assume more experience and knowledge about the current state of the blockchain world. If you have spent time on the websites we linked to earlier, you should be good to go.

When we set out to find a blockchain suitable for our needs, we kept the following issues in mind:

1. **Green**: Traditional Proof Of Work (POW) requires a lot mining power to secure the chain. Proof Of Stake (POS) is planned as a big Ethereal upgrade addressing this exact issue. 
2. **Secure**: Blockchains are a solution to the “double spending problem”. They give a timestamp to published transactions by having a broad consensus over which transactions are valid and included in the blockchain. By distributing the power to participate in the consensus, failing/hacked nodes or malicious participants do no longer pose a threat. POW requires to have a tremendous amount of mining power to be secure and Traditional Proof Of Stake (POS) is not perfect either. 
3. **Scalable**: Blockchains do not scale very well, the amount of transactions per second is limited. We need a way to overcome this limitation.
4. **Smart contracts**: A token transfer transaction is the simplest kind of contract, it just states that some inputs are being converted to some (spendable) outputs. We need more advanced contracts to be supported like making reservations for compute capacity where a consuming party might be able to stop the contract if the provider fails to deliver. 
5. **Micropayments support**: Performing micropayments on chain does not really make sense, it costs a lot on transaction fees and increases the chain size while these micropayments often occur repeatedly in a short timeframe between the same parties. The average block time is 10 minutes and since someone should wait for a couple of blocks to ensure the payment will not be reversed, making small payments for services someone else delivers continuously becomes a slow process.  
6. **No dependency on external tokens**: When leveraging an existing chain, the token used for transaction fees is the base currency of that chain. This means consumers interacting with the smart contracts or people transferring tokens need to be aware of the underlying base token and make sure they acquire this base token in order to interact with the overlay logic. Pretty annoying and difficult to explain. 
7. **Private**: It should be possible to create private chains without sacrificing security. 
8. **Lightweight client support**: A chain can grow significantly in size and it might take a while to synchronize initially. Devices that are not constantly connected to the peer2peer network or do not have the required storage need to be able to interact with the chain as well. Lightweight clients are wallets that contain private keys, can view transactions and interact with the blockchain without having a copy of the blockchain locally or participate in the peer2peer protocol directly. A secure way to enable lightweight clients that guarantees correctness and reliability is absolutely required. 
9. **Notary**: It should be possible to register arbitrary data on the chain. 
10. **Hierarchical deterministic wallets**: Addresses are generated in a known fashion rather than randomly so some clients can be used on multiple devices without the risk of losing funds. Users can conveniently create a single backup of the seed in a human readable format that will last the life of the wallet, without the worry of this backup becoming stale. Additionally, there is complete separation of private and public key creation for greater security and convenience. In this model a server can be set up to only know the Master Public Key of a particular deterministic wallet. This allows the server to create as many public keys as is necessary for receiving funds, while guaranteeing that even a compromised MPK will not allow an attacker to spend from the wallet. 
11. **Authorized addresses**: Most blockchain implementations do not care about the exact addresses used. It is simply a hash-derivation of the public key from a random bytestring used as private key. When token ownership is required to be gone through accepted KYC (Know Your Customer) procedures, this is not an option. It should be possible to pass on the authorizations according to the hierarchical deterministic wallet structure.  

So, what is the solution? An option would be to use an existing, public chain to implement the required goals.

While leveraging an existing public chain would be the simplest thing to do, the base currency would be the one of that chain. Using Ethereum and creating the extra functionality in smart contracts there would still require Eth to be used as gas when interacting with the smart contract. Next to having a limit of 20 transactions/second for the entire global Ethereum network, syncing and having a copy of the entire Ethereum chain while we are only interested in the interactions with our own contracts is quite the overhead, especially during initial block download. Forking such a general platform is no option either, especially not if they are POW based like current Ethereum. It’s not green and it would require a tremendous amount of mining power to secure such a fork. One can argue that even though this doesn’t overcome the POW issue, it’s still moderately green since the mining power is there anyway. We would however still end up contributing to transaction fees and stimulate more mining capacity to be deployed.  

General purpose blockchain platforms are complex. Smart contracts are written in higher level languages like Solidity, compiled to some sort of bytecode and executed in sandboxes. Mistakes can happen everywhere, even with people that know the system very well, like the well known DAO hack proved. 
Some of the goals like authorized addresses, hierarchical deterministic wallets, notary, micropayments... are simple to accomplish when entering the blockchain code itself but would require custom wallet implementations that handle both the more complex blockchain and the smart contract interaction levels. Hence, we need a different blockchain. We proposed our own to meet these needs. Enter the Rivine blockchain.

Basic Rivine concepts
-------------------


1. Rivine is a **Bitcoin variant** and builds upon the principles and concepts of Bitcoin for transaction validity and token transfer. A good read is the original Bitcoin whitepaper by Satoshi Nakamoto. 
2. Rivine introduced **Proof Of BlockStake (POS)**: In a rivine network, two digital assets exist, normal coins and BlockStakes. BlockStakes are digital tokens as well and can be transferred to normal rivine addresses. The founder of a chain distributes these BlockStakes to other people and or nodes. The POS algorithm in Rivine can only be performed by BlockStakes, the normal coins can not participate to enlarge the chain, which does not mean they do not validate incoming transactions and blocks themselves off course. A node containing BlockStakes and that participates in the Proof Of BlockStake (POBS) protocol is called a Block Creator Node (BCN).  You can think of BlockStakes as being the shares of the blockchain. Since shareholders are the owners of a company (and if real world assets are linked, are liable if something goes wrong), they collaboratively control what eventually ends up in the chain or not according to the defined rules. It’s important that these BlockStakes are well distributed so a hack of systems containing BlockStakes does not allow an attacker to do a 51% attack. 
3. Rivine supports **Multiple chains**: Because the POBS consensus protocol does not require massive amounts of distributed mining power to secure it, starting special purpose chains does not pose a security threat. 
4. Rivine supports **Off chain payment channels**: Within a specific contract, micropayments can be exchanged to reflect the used amount of compute resources for example. While the contracts themselves are registered on the chain, the updates and micro payments themselves are not. The payment updates are negotiated off chain and only the updated version that both parties agreed upon can be posted back on the chain, effectively executing the combined payments. This allows for a lot of transactions while not consuming the transactions/second limitations of a normal blockchain. 
5. Rivine enables **Smart contracts with locked collateral**: When creating smart contracts, collateral can be locked on it, it’s a guarantee that the parties are agreeing to keep their promise since they will lose the collateral if they don’t. In this case, the collateral is burned, no one benefits from it since that would be an incentive for people that are able to become the beneficiary of collateral to try to make a party unable to fulfill its promise (like a DOS attack on a provider for example). Collateral is formed in normal coins, blockstakes are not eligible for collateral deposits. 
6. Rivine supports **Gateways and offline transaction signing:** In order to support lightweight clients like mobile phones, a full node can expose a gateway to the consensus that also accepts posting fully signed transactions back to the network. A lightweight client can connect to multiple gateways it chooses itself to validate the data they return. It can post a signed transaction multiple times to different gateways but it will end up uniquely in the chain. 

In coming blogposts, we will go deeper into each of the above functionalities. Stay tuned!