+++

#Don't remove name!
title = "information"
header = "Threefold Token?  What is it?"
image = "threefold_token.jpg"
author = "Baker Yanicelli"
subtitle = "What is our ThreeFold Token, how to buy, is it an investment instrument, how safe is it, how is it backed?"
weight = 11

+++

## BLOG: Threefold Token?  What is it?

A ThreeFold Token is a smart contract digital token that is the exclusive payment instrument or currency for which operators can sell IT capacity via our Directory service.   

One of the Foundation’s primary goals is to migrate our Token firmly into the mainstream as a payment mechanism used to purchase IT and other services.  To do this, the Foundation prioritizes the Token’s liquidity, stability, transparency and exchangeability - as these metrics heavily influence acceptance and demand for digital (and fiat) currencies.

We designed our Token as a safe, scalable currency with real utility and intrinsic value backed by real assets.  Our Token Holders benefit from the following:

* Real Value.  The Tokens are backed with full economic interests in the Foundation and the Foundation’s assets.  Furthermore the Foundation grows organically by investing in revenue-generating assets  - increasing the Foundation’s value
* Real Utility.  From inception, our Tokens have a specific designated use as the payment mechanism for buying and selling IT capacity on our Grid.  The Token’s utility - in particular its use by IT companies and other buyers of capacity who are not traditional digital coin investors - facilitates liquidity by supporting daily trading volumes and exchangeability
* Neutrality.  Our Foundation is mission- and value-based, has no shareholders and is not owned or controlled by any institution or government.  
* Green.  Our blockchain is different - and enables much greater scalability to millions  of transactions without requiring outsize energy consumption
* Security.  Also our blockchain is less vulnerable to large miner consortia controlling hashrates or DDOS and other attacks.  All users and nodes are registered on our blockchain-based identity management platform enhancing security and privacy.

### Real Value - Our Tokens are Backed  with Real Assets
One of the key differentiating characteristics of our Token vis-a-vis other cryptocurrencies is that the our Token has intrinsic value backed by real assets.  The value of many other crypto-currencies is based on speculation and is not supported by underlying assets or collateral.  This is arguably the case for many fiat currencies as well for that matter…

Our Tokens are backed by real assets.  Each Token represents an economic interest in the Foundation.  In fact our Foundation’s by-laws state that if the Foundation is liquidated, Token Holders would receive 100% of the resulting distributable assets.
The assets of the Foundation include: the Foundations’s Internet infrastructure assets ( our Grid), the cash flows generated by the Foundation’s assets, and the IT Capacity available for sale for which the Tokens are used as payment mechanism.


### Real Utility - TF Tokens Are Designated Payment Mechanism for IT Capacity

What do we mean when we say our Token has a specific “utility?”  We mean that our Token has a designated “use” as the exclusive currency for buying and selling Internet capacity via our Directory.  We believe that commercial utility is critical long term for a currency.  Over time, the Foundation’s objective is for our Token to become the preferred currency for IT capacity transactions - scaling with the growth of the Internet.

This utility creates benefits for Token Holders.  Because purchasers of IT capacity are not in the business of investing in digital coins - and they need to use our Tokens to pay for their IT capacity - this results in additional transaction activity, higher  daily trading volumes and better liquidity / exchangeability for Token Holders.

Furthermore, Internet capacity is among the fastest growing commodities in the world - and linking the Token directly to the value of IT Capacity provides further support and stability for the Token.  The exchange rate used for Tokens vs IT capacity is calculated dynamically via an algorithmic pricing model

