+++
#Don't remove title!

title = "pto"
header = "A safe digital currency backed by a new, neutral and green Internet"
weight = 1
+++

# SUMMARY TOKEN SALE TERMS
The Tokens purchased in this private token offering will provide the purchasers with access to our Grid and Directory service, and will also allow purchasers of the Tokens to participate in our mission of building a new neutral internet.

## Private Token Offering (PTO)

We are organizing our Private Token Offering (PTO) to raise additional capital to deploy more infrastructure and capacity on our Grid.  The Foundation is issuing ThreeFold Tokens to a limited number of identified individuals and legal entities via our Token Issuance Mechanism (explained below) 

## ThreeFold Token

A smart contract digital token (the Token) that is the exclusive payment instrument or currency for which operators can sell IT capacity via our Directory service.

## Backing / Collateral

The Token represents an economic interest in the ThreeFold Foundation.  Our Foundation’s by-laws state that if the Foundation is liquidated for any reason, Token Holders would receive 100% of the resulting distributable assets.
The assets of the Foundation include:
- Internet infrastructure assets ( our Grid)
- The cash flows generated by the Foundation’s assets
- The IT Capacity available for sale for which the Tokens are used as payment mechanism


## The Issuer

The ThreeFold Foundation, a transparent tokenized organization with three primary objectives:  
- Using our Token to build a new, neutral, “Edge” Internet;
- Creating a digital currency with real utility backed by real assets; and
- Empowering our Token Holders to work alongside us.

## Designated Utility - payment currency for Internet Capacity:

Our Tokens are the designated payment mechanism for IT Capacity sold via our Directory service on our global Grid.  
Over time, the Foundation’s objective is for our Tokens to become the preferred currency for IT capacity transactions - scaling with the growth of the Internet.

## Available Amount Of Tokens

Today there are 10,000,000 Tokens created and backed by the value of our Foundation and by internet capacity which is committed to be deployed by our operators and hosters over more than 200 locations.


## Token Issuance Mechanism and Price per Token

We will use the majority of the PTO proceeds to invest in infrastructure and capacity on our Grid.  Given the attractive economics of our infrastructure, the value of our Grid and our Foundation potentially  increases based on the amount of investment we deploy.  Accordingly, our Token price will could be expected to increase based on the amount of funding we raise.  

However, during the initial investment phase for our Grid through December 2019, we want to protect value for our Token Holders.  To do this we have created our Token Issuance Mechanism (the Mechanism) which prescribes the Token price at which each tranche of Tokens shall be issued as follows:
* First 1 million shares at US$ 10 per Token
* Next 1 million shares at US$ 13 per Token
* Next 1 million shares at US$ 16 per Token
* Next 1 million shares at US$ 19 per Token
* Next 1 million shares at US$ 22 per Token
* Next 1 million shares at US$ 25 per Token
* Next 1 million shares at US$ 28 per Token
* Next 1 million shares at US$ 31 per Token

* Thereafter, the Token price will increase in increments of 10% for each block of 1 million Tokens that are issued and sold.

After December 2019, the Token price will trade based on market supply and demand.  An additional 1 million Tokens will be issued every time the Token price increases 10% from the Token price of the previous issuance.  For purposes of calculating this Token price threshold, the Foundation shall use the average Token price calculated over 5 consecutive trading days.  The resulting price for issuance of the 1 million new Tokens shall be equal to 10% above this 5 day average price.


## Liquidity Mechanism

During the period from the commencement of the Token offering until December 2019 (the Initial Period), Token Holders will be free to sell their Tokens on a priority basis before any new Tokens are issued by the Foundation.
The liquidity mechanism (the Queue) prioritises Token sales as follows:
1. Token Holders who have purchased Tokens in the Token offering have priority to sell their Tokens
1. Founders have (pro rata) priority in the queue on only up to 20% of the Tokens they own.  If Founders sell 20% and wish to sell more they must go to the back of the Queue for the next 20% and so on
1. Only after all the Token Holders are exhausted will the new Tokens be sold
1. The price will not increase (or decrease) until the full 1 million newly issued Tokens are sold 

## Currencies Accepted

Initially, we accept USD, EUR, GBP and BTC.
At later stage, we will open up YEN, UAED, CHF and ETH.

## Use of Proceeds

The Foundation will use the net proceeds of the PTO to deploy additional Internet capacity on our global Grid.  Part of the proceeds of the PTO will be held as cash on balance sheet to support Token liquidity

Importantly, the Foundation’s Internet infrastructure generates cash flows from the sale of the internet capacity being created- the Foundation expects to continue to fund the growth of the Grid network with the excess cash generated by the sale of capacity and the sale of additional Tokens to purchasers of capacity.

The Foundation reinvests these profits – as a charitable Foundation, there are no stockholders of the Foundation

## Smart Contract

The Tokens are issued electronically via smart contract consisting of software code, existing on the Foundation’s chosen Blockchain (Smart Contract).

## Listing

The Tokens will be tradable on the Foundation’s private exchange.

## Follow-on Token Offerings

In addition to the Token Issuance Mechanism described above, the Foundation may issue new Tokens via follow-on Token Offerings to make further investments in Internet capacity on our global Grid and will from time to time sell Tokens to purchasers of Grid internet capacity.

## Foundation Governance and Management

The Foundation will be structured as a Dutch Stitching based in the Dutch Antilles.
Our legal & financial structure has been setup by "Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe" which is one of the leading law firms in the world.

The Foundation is governed and represented by its Boards of Directors.  The Boards ensure that the Foundation’s activities are aligned with its stated purpose and benefit the Token Holders.  There are 3 levels of boards to ensure transparency for Token Holders. For detailed information see: [Our Foundation's Governance ](/governance)

The Foundation has a management team appointed by the Board. The management team oversees daily operations and is highly experienced across technology, growth businesses and Finance. Members of our team have successfully built and exited numerous technology start-ups and several have extensive C-Level experience in high profile companies.

## Reinvestment of Cash Flows

Because the Foundation does not have any stockholders, all  cashflow generated by the Foundation will be re-invested, increasing the asset value of the Foundation and the Tokens. Hence the value and financial benefit generated by the Foundation accrues to the Tokens.

## Liquidation Rights

Per the Foundation by-laws, in the event the Foundation ceases, the full Net Asset Value of the Foundation as determined at the time would be distributed to the then holders of the Tokens.

## Offering Expenses

We currently plan to reserve 5% of the proceeds from the sale of Tokens to cover expenses of the offering (legal, accounting and advisory costs) as well as any commissions required.

## WHY SHOULD YOU BUY OUR TOKENS?

- Good cause: Purchasers are helping us build a new neutral edge Internet
- Potential upside: ThreeFold sits at the intersection of three of today’s most important technologies - Blockchain, Cloud - Computing and Artificial Intelligence, and we believe that as our global Grid expands and the capacity available for sale grows, the demand for our Tokens will increase
- Downside Protection and reduced volatility (ie Token price less likely to decrease substantially):  Our Tokens are backed by the full faith and credit and assets of our Foundation.  Our Technology and Grid are already up and running and we believe our Foundation and its assets represent significant value
- High quality team with extensive technology and financial experience
- Existing technology that is very well positioned for Edge networking and outperforms leading technologies in many categories



## More Info

- [Foundation Governance](/governance)
- [Foundation FAQ](/faq/foundation-faq/)
- [Token FAQ](/faq/token-faq/)
- [PTO White Paper](http://tiny.cc/tf_whitepaper_pto)
