+++
#Don't remove title!

title = "pto"
header = "A safe digital currency backed by a new, neutral and green Internet"
subtitle = "Threefold Token"

+++

## TFT = ThreeFold Token

A smart contract digital token representing a pro rata fractional economic interest in the ThreeFold Foundation (the Token).  From a financial perspective, each Token is like a share in the Foundation 


## The Issuer

The ThreeFold Foundation (the Foundation), a transparent tokenized organization with
three primary objectives:  

Creating a safe digital currency backed by real assets,
Use our Token to help build a new, neutral, “Edge” Internet,
Empowering our Token Holders to work alongside us


## Underlying Assets

TFT's are asset-backed, collateralised by:

* A pro rata economic interest in the Foundation
* Internet infrastructure assets (our Grid) 
* The cash flows generated by the Foundation’s assets
* The Foundation’s open source technology (software)
* The IT Capacity for which the Tokens are used as payment mechanism


## Designated Utility - payment currency for Internet Capacity:

TFT is the designated payment mechanism for IT Capacity transactions on our global Grid.  
Our providers sell capacity using TFT's, IT users buy capacity using TFT's.

Over time, the Foundation’s objective is for the TF Token to become the preferred currency for IT capacity transactions - scaling with the growth of the Internet


## Available Amount Of Tokens 

Today there are 10,000,000 Tokens created and backed by internet capacity which is committed to be deployed by our operators and hosters over more than 200 locations. The value of this capacity is over 100m USD.


## Target Amount Offered

We are organizing our Public Token Offering (PTO) to raise additional capital to deploy more capacity on our Grid.  We plan to issue up to 3,000,000 Tokens to Investors

## Price per Unit

US$ 10.00 per Token, representing net proceeds up to $30 million to the Foundation after payment of fees and PTO expenses

## Currencies Accepted

USD, YEN, EUR, GBP, CHF, BTC and ETH

## Offering Deadline

15 September 2017 (PTO close)

## Use of Proceeds

The Foundation will use the net proceeds of the PTO to deploy additional Internet capacity on our global Grid.  Part of the proceeds of the PTO will be held as cash on balance sheet to support Token liquidity

Importantly, the Foundation’s Internet infrastructure generates cash flows - the Foundation expects the infrastructure to generate in excess of 5x investment over a 4 year period
  
The Foundation reinvests these profits



## Smart Contract

The TF Tokens represent a pro rata fractional economic interest in the Foundation.  The Tokens are issued electronically via smart contract consisting of software code, existing on the Foundation’s chosen Blockchain (Smart Contract)


## Listing

The Tokens will be listed on multiple digital currency exchanges.


## Follow-on Token Offerings:

The Foundation may issue new Tokens via follow-on Token Offerings to make further investments in Internet capacity on our global Grid - such an offering will require majority decision from all our token holders.  [(see company governance)](http://www.threefoldtoken.com/governance)

## Foundation Governance and Management

The Foundation is structured as a Dutch Stichting Trust based in the Netherlands. Our legal & financial structure has been setup by "Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe" which is one of the leading law firms in the world.

The Foundation is governed and represented by its Boards of Directors.  The Boards ensure that the Foundation’s activities are aligned with its stated purpose and benefit the Token Holders.  There are 3 levels of boards to ensure transparency for Token Holders[see this doc](http://www.threefoldtoken.com/governance)

The Foundation has a management team appointed by the Board. The management team oversees daily operations and is highly experienced across technology, growth businesses and Finance. Members of our team have successfully built and exited numerous technology start-ups and several have extensive C-Level experience in high profile companies.



## Distribution Policy

All of the value and financial benefit of the Foundation is allocated to the Token Holders. This means that if any part of the Foundation is monetised via payment of dividends, sales of assets or any other way - all of the proceeds go to the Token Holders

However, the Foundation does not presently anticipate returning capital to Token Holders via dividends or distributions.


## Liquidation Rights

In the event of a liquidation of the Foundation, the Token Holders would have  full liquidation rights up to the full NAV of the Foundation as determined at the time of the liquidation.


## Offering Expenses

5% of tokens offered will be created additionaly to cover all expenses of the PTO (legal, accounting and advisory costs) as well as any commissions required.

## More Info

- [Foundation Governance](http://www.threefoldtoken.com/governance)
- [Foundation FAQ](http://www.threefoldtoken.com/faq/foundation)
- [Token FAQ](http://www.threefoldtoken.com/faq/token)
- [PTO White Paper](http://tiny.cc/tf_whitepaper_pto)




